>> Kyle Simpson: If we're not talking
about Knowles and undefines, but
we're talking about strings, numbers and
Booleans, there's a prevailing sense here,
from clauses four through seven,
that essentially,
this algorithm prefers to
do numeric comparison.
You'll notice four different
places it calls the two number.
It says if the type X is number,
but the other one is string,
then call two number on the string,
so I can do a numeric comparison.
Same thing in five, same thing in six.
If one of them's Boolean, then do a two
number on it, and make the comparison.
So it prefers to reduce everything down
to numbers to make the comparison.
Now you may not like that that's
the way the algorithm works, but
just by knowing that it helps you
to understand the behaviors and
predict the behaviors of
the double equals algorithm.
That in some cases you thought
one thing was happening, but
actually an entirely different
thing was happening.
Instead of two strings getting compared,
it's two numbers getting compared.
Just knowing in the back of your head
double equals prefers numeric comparison.
That one fact separates you from
99.99% of all JavaScript developers,
cuz they've never even read the spec.
So how do we see that playing out?
Well, if I have a string on a number,
like I am on line one, that's a number and
online too, it's a string.
If I do a triple equals, of course,
I'm gonna have to forcibly make
the numbers to do a comparison,
they're gonna have to be the same type.
If I had a triple equals and they were
different types, it's always gonna fail.
So I'm gonna have to make numbers.
But if I know there can only be number or
string, especially if one of them is
definitely a number, then an exactly
the same way as I allow this with the last
things sign, several sides ago,
why not also allow with the double equals,
why not say that this code online for
is more noisy unnecessarily so
and the abstraction of the double
equals it's helpful here.
It's saying whether they're a number or
a string,
let's let them compare to each other.
And if they're equal,
great, and if not, great.
But use the abstraction of the tools.
>> Kyle Simpson: I can do this because
I designed this particular function or
this particular piece of
code to restrict the types,
to say that the only types here
that can be considered for
the equality comparison are the string and
the number.
This would be a significantly more
complex code if I would allow arrays and
objects and bullions and all kinds of
other types to come into that comparison.
So the case that I keep making is,
you can choose to structure your code in
such a way that coercion is a useful and
obvious system, rather than the complex
magic that some people feel.
It brings it back within the realm
of reasonable and practical for
your code basis.
Not just for you, but for
all the members of your development.
>> Speaker 2: Look, numerical strengths
in both cases, they could blow up,
wouldn't they?
It wasn't both numerical
strengths like from forum.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
if they were both strings,
let's go back to thinking
about the algorithm.
If both of them were strings,
what does the algorithm do?
>> Speaker 2: Transmit the numbers.
>> Kyle Simpson: Nope,
if they are both strings,
that means they are both of the same type,
then what does the algorithm do?
>> Speaker 3: It does the triple equals.
>> Kyle Simpson: It
does the triple equals.
So my response to you is, if those strings
were literally identical, you'd get true,
and otherwise you wouldn't.
But that's the same for
every string that you do.
You couldn't reasonably expect a string
that said 3.7 and a string that said.
3.07 to equal each other, those strings
are equal and those numbers learn.
>> Speaker 2: Like a form input that
some outputs base in front of it,
for example, they become weird but
if it's a number about the space in front.
>> Kyle Simpson: Again,
let's reset back to the context,
the double equals is going to allow
coercion when the types are different.
If you're in a scenario where
the types are not different,
where the types are the same, then it's
not ever going to invoke coercion, ever.
If you want some other
additional behavior,
the thing that you want
is not coercion here,
the thing you want is string trimming, or
string formatting or something like that.
If you have a case where you
have two strings that could have
whitespace on either side, and you really
only care about the stuff in between.
Great, there's a thing for that and
it's called string trimming.
But that isn't coercion.
Coercion is when I have a string and
a number, and
I'd like those to be
compared to each other.
Does that help?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, all right.
So back to our algorithm,
the final part, classes 8 and
9, if you use a double equals with
something that's not already a primitive,
guess what we invoke our
friend to primitive.
We invoke the two primitive
abstract operation.
We already looked at that.
Remember that's the one that calls
value over two string or whatever.
The takeaway here is that double
equals only compares primitives.
If you use it with something that's
not a primitive, what's it gonna do?
Turn it into a primitive.
The only time it does something with non
primitives is when they're the exact same
type and then it just does the same
value triple equals comparison.
Otherwise, it says, listen,
the only coercion step I care about right
now is getting you to be a primitive.
And then we'll reconsider whether the
primitives are at the same type or not.
Remember how I said earlier in the course,
that these algorithms are sorta
inherently recursive.
The double equals operator says,
I need to get it to the point,
where one of these clauses matches.
If you give me some scenario where
it doesn't match completely,
then I'm gonna re-run
the algorithm over and over and
over again, until I get it down to two
primitives that are of the same type.
Or two primitives that can be
coercively equal to each other.
And if I never get to that point,
guess what, false, they are not equal.
So in other words, we would invoke the two
primitive and get two primitives, and
then come back to the algorithm
with our two primitives, and
then make the decision accordingly.